# Exploration #

## Exploration ##

In the exploration phase we will generate new configurations (referred to as **candidates**) to include in the training set. For this we will perform MD simulations with either the LAMMPS (classical nuclei) or i-PI (quantum nuclei) softwares. Go to the current iteration exploration folder `XXX-exploration` created at the end of the previous training phase and execute the `prepare` phase to initialize the exploration. As for the Initialization and Training steps, you could change the default parameters of the exploration by creating a `input.json` file from the `default_input.json` file, modifying the desired values and running the `prepare` phase again. If you want to keep the default values you only need to run the `prepare` phase once. Some of the phases are slightly different if you use LAMMPS or i-PI, both phase workflows are detailed below.

### LAMMPS: classical nuclei simulations ###

Once you are satisfied with your exploration parameters (see example below) you can execute the next exploration phases : `launch` to run MD trajectories with each subsystem  and `check` (once the `Slurm` MD jobs are done!). If the `check` phase is succesfull, you can move on to the `deviate` phase, where you can set important parameters for candidate selection. Once again you can modify these keywors by the creation (or modification if you already created one for a previous phase) of a `default_input.json` file and re-executing the `deviate` phase. In the `extract` phase an important choice can be made: whether to include "disturbed" candidates in the training set or not. This is done by changing the `disturbed_start_value` and `disturbed_candidate_value` variables from the defaults (0.0) and will include a set of candidates generated by applying a random perturbation to those obtained in the MD trajectories (this will multiply by 2 the number of selected candidates, make sure that the `disturbed_start_value` that you choose will still give physically meaningful configurations, otherwise you will deteriorate your NNP!). Once you execute this phase a `candidates_SUBSYS_XXX.xyz` file will be created in each subsystem directory containing the candidate configurations that will be added to the training set (you might want to check that they make sense!). You can also disturb only some atoms in the configuration in which case you will need to write their (zero-based) atomic indices in the `disturbed_candidate_indexes` variable. The `clean` phase can be executed to clean up all the temporary files. A `control/exploration_XXX.json` file will be written recording all the exploration parameters.

### i-PI quantum nuclei simulations ###

Simulations explicitly including nuclear quantum effects by path-integral molecular dynamics with i-PI are quite similar to classical nuclei simulations with LAMMPS. Although the i-PI input files are different (see [i-PI](https://ipi-code.org/)), the `prepare`, `launch` and `check` phases can be done exactly as previously (see [LAMMPS classical nuclei simulations](#lammps-classical-nuclei-simulations) above). Then, before executing the `deviate` and `extract` phases, you must run `select_beads` and `rerun` in this order. These phases do not have special parameters that need to be tuned but require `VMD` and `Atomsk`. After that, you can run the rest of the step as for LAMMPS MD simulations.

## EXAMPLE ##

After the first training phase of your ice & water NNP you now have starting models that can be used to propagate reactive MD. For this go to the `$WORK_DIR/001-exploration` folder (in your HPC machine!) and execute the `prepare` phase to obtain an `defauld_input.json` file with default values. For the first iteration we might be satisfied with the defaults (2 simulations per NNP and per subsystem, 10 ps simulations with the LAMMPS time-step of 0.5 fs, etc.) so we might directly run exploration phases 2 and 3 right away (waiting for the `Slurm` jobs to finish as always). These will have created 3 directories (one per subsystem) `ice/`, `water/` and `water-reactive/`, in which there will be 3 subdirectories (one per trained NNP) `1/`, `2/` and `3/`, in which again there will be 2 subdirectories (default) `0001/` and `0002/`. This means that a total of 18 MD trajectories will be performed for this first iteration (180 ps total simulation time). Be careful, the total exploration time can quickly become huge, especially if you have many subsystems.

Since this is the first exploration phase we might want to generate only a few candidate configurations to check whether our initial NNP are stable enough to give physically meaningful configurations, we might as well want to use a relatively strict error criterion for candidate selection. All this can be done by modifying the default values written to `input.json` at the `deviate` phase and re-running this phase. In the end, your input file might look like this:

```JSON
{
    "step_name": "exploration",
    "user_machine_keyword_exp": "mykeyword1",
    "slurm_email": "",
    "atomsk_path": "PATH_TO_THE_ATOMSK_BINARY",
    "vmd_path": "PATH_TO_THE_VMD_BINARY",
    "exploration_type": ["lammps", "lammps", "lammps"],
    "traj_count": [2, 2, 2],
    "temperature_K": [273.0, 300.0, 300.0],
    "timestep_ps": [0.0005, 0.0005, 0.0005],
    "previous_start": [true, true, true],
    "disturbed_start": [false, false, false],
    "print_interval_mult": [0.01, 0.01, 0.01],
    "job_walltime_h": [-1, -1, -1],
    "exp_time_ps": [10, 10, 10],
    "max_exp_time_ps": [400, 400, 400],
    "max_candidates": [50, 50, 100],
    "sigma_low": [0.1, 0.1, 0.1],
    "sigma_high": [0.8, 0.8, 0.8],
    "sigma_high_limit": [1.5, 1.5, 1.5],
    "ignore_first_x_ps": [0.5, 0.5, 0.5],
    "init_exp_time_ps": [-1, -1, -1],
    "init_job_walltime_h": [-1, -1, -1],
    "disturbed_candidate_value": [0.5, 0, 0],
    "disturbed_start_value": [0.0, 0.0, 0.0],
    "disturbed_start_indexes": [[], [], []],
    "disturbed_candidate_indexes": [[], [], []]
}
```

We have indicated the path to the `Atomsk` code used for creating the disturbed geometries at the beginning of the input file. We allow for slightly larger deviations (`"sigma_high"` keyword set to 0.8 eV/Ang) and collect a larger number of candidates (`"max_candidates"` set to 100) for the more complex third system (reactive water).
At this stage we should decide wether we want to include disturbed candidates in the training set. Here we might want to do so only for the ice system, since explorations at lower temperature explore a more reduced zone of the phase space and it is easier to be trapped in meta-stable states. This can be done by setting `disturbed_start_value` to `0.5`. The values in `disturbed_start_value` are used to disturb the starting structures for the next iteration. For the 2 other systems `disturbed_start_value` and `disturbed_candidate_value` are set to `0.0` in order to avoid disturbance. A non-zero value sets the maximal amplitude of the random translation vector that will be applied to each atom (a different vector for each atom) in Å.

**Note:** we have indicated the path to a `VMD` executable, this is not needed if `vmd` is inmediately available in our path when executing the `extract` phase (loaded as a module for example). Similarly, we can remove `atomsk_path` if `atomsk` is already in the path.

We can finally clean up the working folder by running the `clean` phase and move on to the labeling phase! (Don't forget to keep your local folder updated so that you can analyze all these results)
